The 10x10 deployment array, as shown on the left, let you deploy the warships and show you 
where your opponent hits.

    We have 10 warships in 4 types, they are:

 (Aircraft Carrier) x 1 
 (Cruiser) x 2 
 (Destroyer) x 3 
 (Submarine) x 4 

The warships have different capacities. An Aircraft Carrier has the capacity of 4, a Cruiser
has that of 3, a Destroyer has 2 and the Submarine has 1.

The capacity indicates how many boxes a warship occupies in the 10x10 array. A warship is 
sunk if all the boxes it occupies have been shot.
 
Warship deployment 
We have two rules on warship deployment:
-a warship can only be deployed horizontally of vertically in the 10x10 array
any two warships can not have any connections in the horizontal and vertical directions
 
There are 3 buttons controlling the deployment array:
[Deploy]: to deploy automatically all not-yet-deployed warships
[Clear]: to un-deploy all the warships
[Finish]: to finish deployment and get ready to fight

How about if we don't like the arrangement generated by the computer?

No problem. We can deploy and un-deploy all the warships with our mouse clicks.

Remember the capacity? We can tell the type of a warship by its capacity. So all we need to
do when deploying a warship is to click two boxes to specify its capacity, horizontally or 
vertically of course.

As shown on the left, we are to deploy an Aircraft Carrier which has the capacity of 4.

To un-deploy a warship, just click on it.

As you might already know, you can click twice on the same box to deploy a Submarine.

 
Choose targets 

Here comes another 10x10 array with new buttons. It sits in the bottom-right area of the
game panel. We can call it the battle array.
The battle array let you choose bomb targets, fire bombs, place marks and even let you peek
at the deployment of your opponent's warships.

Sounds interesting? Let's go through all of them one by one.

Question[1] : How to choose the targets?
Answer[1] : point and click on any vacant boxes within the battle array.

As you click on a vacant box, it changes to a question mark "?".
You can click on as many vacant boxes as you want for conjecturing and marking purpose, but 
you can only shoot three targets in each turn.
So you should release those additional "?"s, or turn them into marks, then click the [Fire]
button when you've made up your mind on your three targets(you will learn how to release a 
"?" and how to mark a box later).
 
Shot or missed? 
Not bad, your bomb hits. 

When you click the [Fire] button, you will notice that the 3 targets you chosed change into 
numbers.

The numbers will act as the bomb counter, or the turn counter. You have totally 20 bombs 
for each game, and your opponent won't have more bombs than you.

As a result, the red numbers indicate that you shot something in that turn, and the black 
ones indicate that you missed.
Question[2] : How can we know what exactly we've shot in each turn?
Answer[2] : ... most of the time, you will have to guess.

The bomb numbers only indicate whether you shot or not, and the score board tells you how 
many hits you've made and what types of warship you've shot, then you make your own 
judgement based on the warship deployment rules and the possible combination of bomb numbers
to identify what you've shot and what to shoot next.

For example, if your score board shows that your opponent's Cruisers have received two hits,
it could be the same Cruiser that receives two hits, or each Cruiser receives one hit. 
That's the attraction of the game.

So, you might want to check out the score board now.

The score board 
Question[3] : What is the score board?
Answer[3] : The score board shows how many hits you've made and what types of warship you've
shot in each turn.

The row on top is the bomb/turn counter. A bomb won't be shown on the score board if it
missed.
There are two rows for each type of warship. The upper row is the hit counter which tells how
many hits you've made to this type of warship(indicated by black numbers), and the lower one 
shows how many warships of this type are sunk in each turn(indicated by red numbers).

    For this case, let's see what happened with reference of the battle array.  We shot the 
    Aircraft Carrier with Bomb[3] and were lucky as we decided to try the top-right target 
    of Bomb[3] first. In the following hits with Bomb[4], [5] and [6], we sank the Aircraft
    Carrier.We were also lucky to make a "Strike" with Bomb[5], but we didn't know which 
    target is the Cruiser. With Bomb[6], we shot the Cruiser again, so when we looking at 
    the combinations of the [5]s and [6]s, it could be a Cruiser sitting horizontally in 
    the bottom-right area, or two Cruisers, one on the left side and the other one on the 
    right side(it couldn't be a Cruiser that deployed vertically in the bottom-left area 
    since we didn't hit a Cruiser with Bomb[1]).

    We got it with Bomb[8] and thus we knew that the target of Bomb[5] on the middle-left 
    side was a Submarine.  On the other hand, we kept searching for the Destroyer found with
    Bomb[1] and finally we made it with Bomb[8] as well.  Likewise, and with luck, we sank 
    the other warships and won the game by Bomb[16]. 
  
  
 
Mark a box 
    You might already notice that we have some spotted boxes in the battle array.According 
    to the warship deployment rules, if you found one of your opponent's warships, then the 
    boxes around it vertically and horizontally won't be occupied by any other warships. 
    It's a good idea that we mark down these boxes so we won't waste our bombs on them by 
    mistake. We mentioned that when you click on a vacant box, it changes to a "?". Well, 
    if you click on it again, it changes to a spotted box and the "?" is released, it will 
    change back to a vacant box with one more click.  So a box changes among "vacant", "?" 
    and "spotted" with clicks.  You can spot a number as well. Click once to spot it and 
    click again to restore it.  The spotted boxes and numbers help you to make clearer 
    judgement when choosing targets. 

How to win? 
Question[4] : How can we know where the opponent shoots?
Answer[4] : In your deployment array, a black cross means your opponent missed, a little 
red spot at the top-left corner of the ship body means your ship was shot.

You can win in two ways, to destroy all the opponent's warships before the opponent sinks 
yours, or to hit more targets than your opponent does when the game finishes.   If it's 
too much for you, you might want to consider sending a SPY.  When you click on the [Spy]
button, it shows randomly one of your opponent's survived warships for one second(hot 
games always come with cheat codes, so do cool games).  For this example, it's a Cruiser.
You have only three spies for each game, use them wisely. Usually, I use the spies to 
find out the opponent's Submarines for the last few bombs.  When the game finishes, your
opponent's warships will be shown in the battle array. Now you can compare your judgement
with your opponent's actual deployment. Use the [Fire] button to switch between hiding and 
showing those warships, and click on the [Quit] button to start a new game. The result of 
our case is shown on the left for your reference.

Congratulations! You are now ready to go on board.